feat(blog): Yoga v2 annoucement (#649)
the-guild-org/the-guild-website: pages/blog/announcing-graphql-yoga-2.mdx

import withArticle from '../../ui/blog/article'

export const meta = {
  title: 'Announcing GraphQL Yoga 2.0!',
  tags: ['server', 'envelop', 'node', 'graphql'],
  author: 'guild',
  date: '2022-03-29',
  description:
    'Fully-featured GraphQL Server with focus on easy setup, performance and great developer experience',
  image: '/blog-assets/angular-cli-meteor-no-eject/cover.png'
}

export default withArticle({ ...meta })

> 

Reviewer: Should we start with embedding here @notrab 's video on Yoga?

Author: In the "Getting Started" section, yes!

Reviewer 2: I’m happy to update the intro and re-release, but I couldn’t do it until Sunday/Monday morning.

Reviewer: we can use the former one for Monday and replace later, I think it was still really good

Reviewer 2: @Urigo I'm happy with that 🚀

Author: > Not in the very beginning?
> Video is always easier for people to watch no?

Having the video at the very beginning of the article would feel like the article is just a summary of the video, which is not the case 👀 

We have a dedicated section for Getting started with links to the docs and tutorial, the video would fit perfectly here

Author: We can also directly reshare the video on Twitter as part of the Tweets launch campaign

Reviewer 2: [Here's](https://graphcms.com/blog/introducing-configurable-sidebars) an example of what I've done previously with announcement + embedded video.

@Urigo @charlypoly I think we can do a mixture of both. Maybe not for this one (unless we've time) but consider more in-depth videos for announcements. Maybe something along the lines of... 

Post: Here's what it is/how it works
Video: Here's how to build something

Author: Agree with you!

We should lay down a format for future announcements because right now we went in 3 directions (not incompatible): long release article with code examples + complete text-tutorial on the website + video tutorial 😅

@notrab I added your video in the dedicated question, so people can choose how to learn Yoga 2:
- Text-tutorial on the website
- your video tutorial
- the docs

Reviewer: Should we add the intro video also on Yoga's landing page somewhere?

Author: I think it would be great to add it to the documentation index page: https://www.graphql-yoga.com/docs/quick-start

WDYT?

Today we are incredibly excited to share with you the new GraphQL Yoga! This release was made possible with your contributions, issues, and feedback.

The Guild took over the development of GraphQL Yoga in early 2021, and with the growing community of tools in the GraphQL space, most recently [Envelop](https://envelop.dev/), we were able to rewrite GraphQL Yoga 2.0 from scratch with easy setup, performance, and developer experience at the core.

GraphQL Yoga continues to boast a "convention over configuration" approach and the freedom to use your favorite libraries, from HTTP to schema-building.

> No longer are you required to install dozens of dependencies to make features such as Subscriptions, File Uploads, CORS, Error Masking, and more.

Reviewer 3: "make features"? Not exactly sure what you wanted to say here, but here are three different possibilities: 

> to make features such as Subscriptions, File Uploads, CORS, Error Masking and more possible

> to get features such as Sub...

> to make features such as Subscriptions, File Uploads, CORS, Error Masking and more easy to build

Author: ```suggestion
No longer are you required to install dozens of dependencies to get features such as Subscriptions, File Uploads, CORS, Error Masking, and more.
```

> Building a GraphQL Yoga server requires a single import and only a few lines of code to start serving both an API and GraphiQL for making development even easier.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Building a GraphQL Yoga server requires a single import and only a few lines of code to start serving an API. And you also get GraphiQL for making development even easier.
```

// 2. Create your server
const server = createServer({
  schema: {
    typeDefs: /* GraphQL */ `
      type Query {
        hello: String
      }
    `,
    resolvers: {
      Query: {
        hello: () => 'Hello Hello Hello'
      }
    }
  }
})

// 3. Serve the API and GraphiQL
server.start()
```

<p>&nbsp;</p>

## The Yoga v2 experience

### Your stack and habits

The main goal of Yoga v2 is to **allow you to leverage all the GraphQL ecosystem** by being compatible with most of the existing schema-design, HTTP server libraries, and deployment environments.

Built on top of a **modular and extendable GraphQL Server**, Yoga v2 allows you to use your preferred schema design approach and HTTP server library.

For example, Yoga v2 is fully compatible with Express and Nexus, with no additional packages:

```tsx
import express from 'express'
import { makeSchema, queryType } from 'nexus'
import { createServer } from '@graphql-yoga/node'

const Query = queryType({
  definition(t) {
    t.string('hello', { resolve: () => 'hello world!' })
  }
})
const schema = makeSchema({
  types: [Query]
})

const graphQLServer = createServer({ schema })

const app = express()

> // Bind GraphQL Yoga to `/graphql` endpoint

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
// Bind GraphQL Yoga to the `/graphql` endpoint
```

// Here it takes the request and response objects and handles them internally
app.use('/graphql', graphQLServer.requestListener)

app.listen(4000, () => {
  console.log('Running a GraphQL API server at http://localhost:4000/graphql')
})
```

> The same applies to **GraphQL Tools, Pothos, Nexus, TypeGraphQL, SDL first schema-design approaches, `graphql-js`, Apollo Tools, Fastify, Koa, Next.js SvelteKit, and Deno**.

Reviewer: missing comma between Next.js and SvelteKit

<br />

Beyond the compatibility of schema-design and HTTP server libraries, Yoga v2 makes **deploying a GraphQL API to any environment seamless**.

> Here, a GraphQL API built with GraphQL Modules, deployed on Cloudflare Workers:

Reviewer: should we list all other environments?

```tsx
import { createServer } from '@graphql-yoga/common'

import { createApplication } from 'graphql-modules'
import { helloWorldModule } from './helloWorld'

const application = createApplication({
  modules: [helloWorldModule]
})

const server = createServer({ schema: application.schema })

self.addEventListener('fetch', (event: FetchEvent) => {
  event.respondWith(server.handleRequest(event.request))
})
```

> Finally, Yoga v2 fits seamlessly in your GraphQL workflow and back-end ecosystem (Apollo Federation Gateway or Apollo Federation Service).

Reviewer: I didn't fully understand that sentence.
Are you trying to say that Yoga can act as your Apollo Federation Gateway and also that it can act as a sub service?

<p>&nbsp;</p>

**Easily extend your API with Envelop plugins**

GraphQL Yoga supports [Envelop](https://envelop.dev/) out of the box, which gives you greater control, and the ability to hook into the GraphQL execution phases.

Here, we are building a full-featured GraphQL API with validation cache, security rules, and tracing with only a few lines of code:

```tsx
import { createServer } from '@graphql-yoga/node'

import { useDepthLimit } from '@envelop/depth-limit'
import { useResponseCache } from '@envelop/response-cache'
import { useSentry } from '@envelop/sentry'

import { schema } from './schema'

const server = createServer({
  schema: {
    typeDefs: /* GraphQL */ `
      type Query {
        hello: String
      }
    `,
    resolvers: {
      Query: {
        hello: () => 'Hello Hello Hello'
      }
    }
  },
  plugins: [
    useDepthLimit({
      // set up some security rules
      maxDepth: 10
    }),
    useResponseCache(), // speed up our server with a response cache
    useSentry() // report unexpected errors to sentry
  ]
})

// Start the server and explore http://localhost:4000/graphql
server.start()
```

> The Envelop Plugin currently [proposes more than 35+ plugins](https://www.envelop.dev/plugins) covering most of the standard GraphQL APIs features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Envelop Plugin currently [proposes more than 35+ plugins](https://www.envelop.dev/plugins) covering most of the standard GraphQL APIs features you need in production.
```

> Ultimately, you can [develop custom Envelop plugins](https://www.envelop.dev/docs/plugins/custom-plugin) to create reusable behaviors that hook on the GraphQL lifecycle.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Ultimately, you can [develop custom Envelop plugins](https://www.envelop.dev/docs/plugins/custom-plugin) to create reusable behaviors that hook on to the GraphQL lifecycle.
```

or maybe

```suggestion
Ultimately, you can [develop custom Envelop plugins](https://www.envelop.dev/docs/plugins/custom-plugin) to create reusable behaviors that hook in to the GraphQL lifecycle.
```

<p>&nbsp;</p>

### Production-ready

GraphQL Yoga v2 has been built in production for production usage.

> Built-in real-world conditions within our projects (ex: GraphQL Mesh) and with some of [our clients](https://www.the-guild.dev/services), performance was highly prioritized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Built-in real-world conditions within our projects (ex: [GraphQL Mesh](https://graphql-mesh.com/)) and with some of [our clients](https://www.the-guild.dev/services), performance was highly prioritised.
```

> The core of Yoga is as performant as possible, and we are constantly trying to improve it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The core of Yoga is as performant as possible, and we continuously keep track and improve it.
```

Also, the Yoga V2 repository runs performance checks on every commit and Pull Request, so we can always capture any performance regression.

> We continue our effort of pushing GraphQL Yoga to more production environments, with soon, the release of Redwood 1.0 that will use Yoga 2.0 as the default GraphQL server.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We continue our effort of pushing GraphQL Yoga to more production environments with the imminent release of Redwood 1.0 that will use Yoga 2.0 as the default GraphQL server.
```

> We continue our effort of pushing GraphQL Yoga to more production environments with the imminent release of Redwood 1.0 that will use Yoga 2.0 as the default GraphQL server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We continue our effort of pushing GraphQL Yoga to more production environments with the imminent release of [Redwood 1.0](https://redwoodjs.com/) that will use Yoga 2.0 as the default GraphQL server.
```

<p>&nbsp;</p>

### A standards-compliant GraphQL Server

In the same way, as TypeScript aims to stay aligned with ECMAScript, GraphQL Yoga is based on several official and recognized specs:

- [GraphQL-spec](https://spec.graphql.org/October2021/), [GraphQL-over-HTTP](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-over-http): guarantees your GraphQL API to work with all existing GraphQL clients (Apollo, Relay, URQL, and more).
- [GraphQL-Multipart-Request](https://github.com/jaydenseric/graphql-multipart-request-spec): enables great File uploads support.
- [W3C Fetch API](https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/): we embrace the future of Node.js and provide the same developer experience on all platforms.

> Yoga v2 also supports some experimental GraphQL features such as [`@defer` and `@stream`](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-js/pull/2839), allowing you to get a taste of the future of GraphQL (with compatible clients such as [URQL](https://formidable.com/open-source/urql/docs/comparison/#core-features)).

Reviewer: I would add that as a section, here is a rough draft you can merge with what you wrote already:

### GraphQL Features from the future

Thanks to the Envelop plugin system, Yoga v2 can also act as `"Babel for GraphQL"`, giving you the option to use features that are not yet in the GraphQL spec but are very useful in production today, like defer and stream and [OneOf](https://www.envelop.dev/docs/guides/using-graphql-features-from-the-future)

<p>&nbsp;</p>

## Get started with Yoga v2

Yoga v2 provides the best GraphQL experience while giving you the freedom to use your preferred stack and tools.

> **Want to try it?** Give a try to [our brand new tutorial](https://www.graphql-yoga.com/tutorial/basic/00-introduction) that will guide you in building a full-featured, modern API with GraphQL Yoga!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Want to try it?** Give [our brand new tutorial](https://www.graphql-yoga.com/tutorial/basic/00-introduction) a try! It will guide you in building a full-featured, modern API with GraphQL Yoga.
```

I don't really think you say "give a try to" in English

**Already convinced to migrate your project to Yoga or start a new one with Yoga?**

> All Yoga v2's features [are well documented on the website](https://www.graphql-yoga.com/docs/quick-start) and [some migration guides](https://www.graphql-yoga.com/docs/migration/migration-from-apollo-server) (from v1, Apollo Server, Express GraphQL).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All Yoga v2's features [are well documented on the website](https://www.graphql-yoga.com/docs/quick-start) and we also have [some migration guides](https://www.graphql-yoga.com/docs/migration/migration-from-apollo-server) (from v1, Apollo Server and Express GraphQL).
```

<p>&nbsp;</p>

## What's next

> Yoga v2 is the biggest and most important project we released to date; still, it is just the beginning of a new GraphQL Server vision.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Yoga v2 is the biggest and most important project we released to date; still, it is just the beginning of our GraphQL Server vision.
```

export const meta = {
  title: 'Announcing GraphQL Yoga 2.0!',
  tags: ['server', 'envelop', 'node', 'graphql'],
  authors: ['charlypoly', 'arda', 'laurin', 'saihaj'],
  date: '2022-03-29',
  description:
    'Fully-featured GraphQL Server with focus on easy setup, performance and great developer experience',
  image: '/blog-assets/announcing-graphql-yoga-2/cover.png',
  thumbnail: '/blog-assets/announcing-graphql-yoga-2/thumbnail.png'
}

export default withArticle({ ...meta })

Today we are incredibly excited to share with you the new GraphQL Yoga! This release was made possible with your contributions, issues, and feedback.

[The Guild](https://www.the-guild.dev/about-us) took over the development of GraphQL Yoga from [Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/) in early 2021, and with the growing community of tools in the GraphQL space, most recently [Envelop](https://envelop.dev/), we were able to rewrite GraphQL Yoga 2.0 from scratch with easy setup, performance, and developer experience at the core.

GraphQL Yoga continues to boast a "convention over configuration" approach and the freedom to use your favorite libraries, from HTTP to schema-building.

> No longer are you required to install dozens of dependencies to get features such as Subscriptions, File Uploads, CORS, Error Masking, and more.

Reviewer 4: I wouldn't consider these features proper nouns and therefore would rather lowercase them.

```suggestion
No longer are you required to install dozens of dependencies to get features such as subscriptions, file uploads, CORS, error masking, and more.
```

> Building a GraphQL Yoga server requires a single import and only a few lines of code to start serving an API. And you also get GraphiQL for making development even easier.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Building a GraphQL Yoga server requires a single import and only a few lines of code to start serving an API. And you also get [GraphiQL](https://github.com/graphql/graphiql) for making development even easier.
```

> ```jsx

Reviewer 4: Nitpick but this is `js` and not `jsx`, no?

```suggestion
```js
```

// 1. Import GraphQL Yoga
import { createServer } from '@graphql-yoga/node'

// 2. Create your server
const server = createServer({
  schema: {
    typeDefs: /* GraphQL */ `
      type Query {
        hello: String
      }
    `,
    resolvers: {
      Query: {
        hello: () => 'Hello Hello Hello'
      }
    }
  }
})

// 3. Serve the API and GraphiQL
server.start()
```

<p>&nbsp;</p>

## The Yoga v2 experience

### Your stack and habits

The main goal of Yoga v2 is to **allow you to leverage all the GraphQL ecosystem** by being compatible with most of the existing schema-design, HTTP server libraries, and deployment environments.

Built on top of a **modular and extendable GraphQL Server**, Yoga v2 allows you to use your preferred schema design approach and HTTP server library.

For example, Yoga v2 is fully compatible with Express and Nexus, with no additional packages:

> ```tsx

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```ts
```

  types: [Query]
})

const graphQLServer = createServer({ schema })

const app = express()

// Bind GraphQL Yoga to the `/graphql` endpoint
// Here it takes the request and response objects and handles them internally
app.use('/graphql', graphQLServer)

app.listen(4000, () => {
  console.log('Running a GraphQL API server at http://localhost:4000/graphql')
})
```

The same applies to **GraphQL Tools, Pothos, Nexus, TypeGraphQL, SDL first schema-design approaches, `graphql-js`, Apollo Tools, Fastify, Koa, Next.js, SvelteKit, and Deno**.

<br />

Beyond the compatibility of schema-design and HTTP server libraries, Yoga v2 makes **deploying a GraphQL API to any environment seamless** (Vercel Functions, Cloudflare Workers, AWS Lambda and more).

Here, a GraphQL API built with GraphQL Modules, deployed on Cloudflare Workers:

```tsx
import { createServer } from '@graphql-yoga/common'

import { createApplication } from 'graphql-modules'
import { helloWorldModule } from './helloWorld'

const application = createApplication({
  modules: [helloWorldModule]
})

const server = createServer({ schema: application.schema })

server.start()
```

<p>&nbsp;</p>

### Productivity at your fingertips

> **Batteries-included**

Reviewer 4: This seems like another heading, so maybe use an H4 instead?

```suggestion
#### Batteries-included
```

Yoga v2 comes with **sensible defaults to make development faster**, all with **complete TypeScript support**.

> **Features common to modern GraphQL APIs** such as File-uploads, Subscriptions support, advanced error handling, or CORS **comes built-in with Yoga**:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Features common to modern GraphQL APIs** such as file-uploads, subscription support, advanced error handling, or CORS **come built-in with Yoga**:
```

> ```tsx

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```ts
```

      }
    `,
    resolvers: {
      Query: {
        hello: () => 'world'
      },
      Subscription: {
        countdown: {
          // This will return the value on every 1 sec until it reaches 0
          subscribe: async function* (_, { from }) {
            for (let i = from; i >= 0; i--) {
              await new Promise((resolve) => setTimeout(resolve, 1000))
              yield { countdown: i }
            }
          }
        }
      },
      Mutation: {
        readTextFile: async (_, { file }: { file: File }) => {
          let textContent = null
          try {
            textContent = await file.text()
          } catch (e) {
            // return an error visible by the client
            throw new GraphQLYogaError(`Failed to parse file`)
          }
          return textContent
        }
      }
    }
  }
})

// We now serve a GraphQL API with Subscriptions (over SSE), CORS,
// and File uploads support!
server.start()
```

Yoga v2 also provides APIs to handle **logging, advanced Subscriptions** use-cases (over WS, Pub/Sub), Apollo **Federation Support**, [and more](https://www.graphql-yoga.com/docs/quick-start).

<p>&nbsp;</p>

> **Easily extend your API with Envelop plugins**

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Easily extend your API with Envelop plugins
```

GraphQL Yoga supports [Envelop](https://envelop.dev/) out of the box, which gives you greater control, and the ability to hook into the GraphQL execution phases.

Here, we are building a full-featured GraphQL API with validation cache, security rules, and tracing with only a few lines of code:

> ```tsx

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```ts
```

import { useDepthLimit } from '@envelop/depth-limit'
import { useResponseCache } from '@envelop/response-cache'
import { useSentry } from '@envelop/sentry'

import { schema } from './schema'

const server = createServer({
  schema: {
    typeDefs: /* GraphQL */ `
      type Query {
        hello: String
      }
    `,
    resolvers: {
      Query: {
        hello: () => 'Hello Hello Hello'
      }
    }
  },
  plugins: [
    useDepthLimit({
      // set up some security rules
      maxDepth: 10
    }),
    useResponseCache(), // speed up our server with a response cache
    useSentry() // report unexpected errors to sentry
  ]
})

// Start the server and explore http://localhost:4000/graphql
server.start()
```

The Envelop Plugin currently [proposes more than 35+ plugins](https://www.envelop.dev/plugins) covering most of the standard GraphQL APIs features you need in production.

Ultimately, you can [develop custom Envelop plugins](https://www.envelop.dev/docs/plugins/custom-plugin) to create reusable behaviors that hook on to the GraphQL lifecycle.

<p>&nbsp;</p>

### Production-ready

GraphQL Yoga v2 has been built in production for production usage.

> Built-in real-world conditions within our projects (ex: [GraphQL Mesh](https://graphql-mesh.com/)) and with some of [our clients](https://www.the-guild.dev/services), performance was highly prioritised.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Built-in real-world conditions within our projects (e.g. [GraphQL Mesh](https://graphql-mesh.com/)) and with some of [our clients](https://www.the-guild.dev/services), performance was highly prioritised.
```

The core of Yoga is as performant as possible, and we continuously keep track and improve it.

> Also, the Yoga V2 repository runs performance checks on every commit and Pull Request, so we can always capture any performance regression.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Also, the Yoga v2 repository runs performance checks on every commit and Pull Request, so we can always capture any performance regression.
```

> We continue our effort of pushing GraphQL Yoga to more production environments with the imminent release of [Redwood 1.0](https://redwoodjs.com/) that will use Yoga 2.0 as the default GraphQL server.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We continue our effort of pushing GraphQL Yoga to more production environments with the imminent release of [Redwood 1.0](https://redwoodjs.com/) that uses Yoga 2.0 as its default GraphQL server.
```

<p>&nbsp;</p>

### A standards-compliant GraphQL Server

> In the same way, as TypeScript aims to stay aligned with ECMAScript, GraphQL Yoga is based on several official and recognized specs:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In the same way that TypeScript aims to stay aligned with ECMAScript, GraphQL Yoga is based on several official and recognized specs:
```

- [GraphQL-spec](https://spec.graphql.org/October2021/), [GraphQL-over-HTTP](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-over-http): guarantees your GraphQL API to work with all existing GraphQL clients (Apollo, Relay, URQL, and more).

> - [GraphQL-Multipart-Request](https://github.com/jaydenseric/graphql-multipart-request-spec): enables great File uploads support.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [GraphQL-Multipart-Request](https://github.com/jaydenseric/graphql-multipart-request-spec): enables great file upload support.
```

- [W3C Fetch API](https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/): we embrace the future of Node.js and provide the same developer experience on all platforms.

> ### GraphQL Features from the future

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### GraphQL features from the future
```

Yoga v2 supports some experimental GraphQL features such as [`@defer` and `@stream`](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-js/pull/2839), allowing you to get a taste of the future of GraphQL (with compatible clients such as [URQL](https://formidable.com/open-source/urql/docs/comparison/#core-features)).

Also, thanks to the Envelop plugin system, Yoga v2 can also act as `"Babel for GraphQL"`, giving you the option to use features that are not yet in the GraphQL spec but are very useful in production today, like defer and stream and [OneOf](https://www.envelop.dev/docs/guides/using-graphql-features-from-the-future).

<p>&nbsp;</p>

## Get started with Yoga v2

Yoga v2 provides the best GraphQL experience while giving you the freedom to use your preferred stack and tools.

> **Want to try it?** Give [our brand new tutorial](https://www.graphql-yoga.com/tutorial/basic/00-introduction) a try! It will guide you in building a full-featured, modern API with GraphQL Yoga.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Get started from scratch with our new tutorial ...

**Want to try it?** Give [our brand new tutorial](https://www.graphql-yoga.com/tutorial/basic/00-introduction) a try! It will guide you in building a full-featured, modern API with GraphQL Yoga.
```

[Episode #24 of `graphql.wtf`](https://graphql.wtf/episodes/24-graphql-yoga) is a also great introduction to GraphQL Yoga 2.0:

<iframe
  width="100%"
  height="400"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/XAwkxSYgfMs"
  title="YouTube video player"
  frameBorder="0"
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
  allowFullScreen
></iframe>

<br />

> **Already convinced to migrate your project to Yoga or start a new one with Yoga?**

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### ... or migrate your existing GraphQL server to Yoga
```

All Yoga v2's features [are well documented on the website](https://www.graphql-yoga.com/docs/quick-start) and we also have [some migration guides](https://www.graphql-yoga.com/docs/migration/migration-from-apollo-server) (from v1, Apollo Server and Express GraphQL).

<p>&nbsp;</p>

## What's next

> Yoga v2 is the biggest and most important project we released to date; still, it is just the beginning of our GraphQL Server vision.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Yoga v2 is the biggest and most important project we released to date; still, it is just the beginning of our GraphQL server vision.
```

          subscribe: async function* (_, { from }) {
            for (let i = from; i >= 0; i--) {
              await new Promise((resolve) => setTimeout(resolve, 1000))
              yield { countdown: i }
            }
          }
        }
      },
      Mutation: {
        readTextFile: async (_, { file }: { file: File }) => {
          let textContent = null
          try {
            textContent = await file.text()
          } catch (e) {
            // return an error visible by the client
            throw new GraphQLYogaError(`Failed to parse file`)
          }
          return textContent
        }
      }
    }
  }
})

// We now serve a GraphQL API with Subscriptions (over SSE), CORS,
// and File uploads support!
server.start()
```

Yoga v2 also provides APIs to handle **logging, advanced Subscriptions** use-cases (over WS, Pub/Sub), Apollo **Federation Support**, [and more](https://www.graphql-yoga.com/docs/quick-start).

<p>&nbsp;</p>

**Easily extend your API with Envelop plugins**

GraphQL Yoga supports [Envelop](https://envelop.dev/) out of the box, which gives you greater control, and the ability to hook into the GraphQL execution phases.

> Here, we are building a full-featured GraphQL API with validation cache, security rules, and tracing with only a few lines of code:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Here, we are building a full-featured GraphQL API with security rules, a response cache and sentry error reporting with only a few lines of code:
```

        hello: String
      }
    `,
    resolvers: {
      Query: {
        hello: () => 'Hello Hello Hello'
      }
    }
  },
  plugins: [
    useDepthLimit({
      // set up some security rules
      maxDepth: 10
    }),
    useResponseCache(), // speed up our server with a response cache
    useSentry() // report unexpected errors to sentry
  ]
})

// Start the server and explore http://localhost:4000/graphql
server.start()
```

The Envelop Plugin currently [proposes more than 35+ plugins](https://www.envelop.dev/plugins) covering most of the standard GraphQL APIs features you need in production.

Ultimately, you can [develop custom Envelop plugins](https://www.envelop.dev/docs/plugins/custom-plugin) to create reusable behaviors that hook on to the GraphQL lifecycle.

<p>&nbsp;</p>

### Production-ready

GraphQL Yoga v2 has been built in production for production usage.

Built-in real-world conditions within our projects (ex: [GraphQL Mesh](https://graphql-mesh.com/)) and with some of [our clients](https://www.the-guild.dev/services), performance was highly prioritised.
The core of Yoga is as performant as possible, and we continuously keep track and improve it.

> Also, the Yoga V2 repository runs performance checks on every commit and Pull Request, so we can always capture any performance regression.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Also, the Yoga V2 repository runs performance checks on every commit and Pull Request, so we can always capture any performance regression.

Last but not least, every commit is ensured to run on all deployment targets such as AWS Lambda or Cloudflare workers through an End-To-End testing suite!
```
